# Network Science Project

In this project we studied the characteristics of literary fictions in the context of social networks. Our goal in this project was to study various facets of network science within a piece of literature. There are three main areas we we wanted to tackle. These were: Identifying similarities between real and artificial social networks, identifying the main characters and protagonists of the story, and identifying the formation of character ties and communities. 
The way in which we set out to achieve the goals of this project was to use multiple metrics of a network diagram. Utilizing various network metrics we were able to analyse different characteristics of the fictional networks in the stories of Harry Potter and Game of Thrones. One of the main points of our project was finding communities and main characters throughout the fictional network using only the network metrics. We were able to successfully find communities within the story’s social network. In the case of the Harry Potter network we saw communities largely based around some main character, house, or morals. By this many of the communities were formed based on a character's house affiliation or whether they were on the side of the protagonist or antagonist. In terms of determining the protagonist we found an interesting observation regarding the metric used for protagonist identification. As we know the protagonist of Harry Potter is Harry himself. As we compiled the data we found that if we based our protagonist identification on the more commonly used centrality metric it would not return the protagonist. We found that the more accurate metric to use to identify a protagonist, contrary to common thought, is betweenness. The last of our main goals through this project was to find similarities between a real social network and an artificial social network. An artificial social network refers to one that based on fiction such as the networks we were basing our project on. Throughout this analysis we found that Harry Potter resembled a real social network more than some other fictional stories as the narrative provides more realistic social interactions in the school type setting. Throughout this report we will detail our method and assess the results. 
